A word on AIC:
I have found that AIC (and the other ICs) are often wrongly pushed aside when creating interpretive models because people don't quite understand them properly. Because p-values have become so ubiquitous in research, sometimes it is hard to see past them. They are known and comfortable. Thus, the most comfortable way to fit a model with a large amount of variables is to put all the variables in the model and rely on the resulting p-values to tell us what is "important". However, when we do this, we forget that the modeling process truly is a process of "fitting". Conceptually, we believe there is some true way that some of these variables combine to affect restoration longevity. To an extent, these variables we have gathered are our guesses for what combines to affect restoration longevity. When we fit a model using all possible variables we are essentially saying to the model "take the restoration longevity and fit it to all of these variables, regardless of whether or not they are likely involved" when really we should be saying "take the restoration longevity and these variables and make the closest fit you can using whatever variables you want." 

When we add in variables that do not aide in the fit of the model we create a few issues. The first issue is that we have a model that is unnecessarily complex. A second issue is that we can obscure the actual relationship between the restoration longevity and truly meaningful variables. As you both know, when we add or remove a variable in the model, the estimates change, even if just slightly. This is because the estimates are made with respect to all other variables being controlled for. If we are controlling for a bunch of variables that don't actually matter, we are hampering the estimation of the truly important variables. This can lead to improper estimates and in extreme cases potentially finding inaccurate relationships. A third and related issue is that including many unnecessary variables leads to overfit where instead of fitting the model to the true trends in the data, we are fitting the model to the random noise. This is important thing to consider in interpretive models because we do not want to report effects if our estimate of them is more based on the random error inherent in our study than it is on the true underlying process.

One thing that people like about the p-value approach is that it lets us make two groups of variables: those that are significant and those that are not significant. With AIC, we can do the same thing. We can write in the paper that we considered say 15 variables and that our model selected say 10 of those. We can interpret this as the variables included in the model as being meaningful while we found the other 5 to be not meaningful in the analysis. Thus, we get the best of many worlds: a simpler model that accounts for the meaningful variables more accurately and we can still determine what is and is not meaningful to us.